# Attribution Reporting API

Nov 15, 2021

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.


# Agenda

Add agenda topics here!



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Introductions
* Scribe volunteer: 
* (Charlie Harrison) Developer-facing updates
    * Origin Trial extension
    * Updated [demo](https://attribution-reporting-demo.glitch.me/)
    * Overview of feature updates
* More PATCG discussion ([#262](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/262))
* Major API changes call for feedback
    * [Response-header based registration](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/261) for impressions and [conversions](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/91)
    * [Declarative API surface](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/194)
* (Erik Anderson) Microsoft published a [paper on oblivious shuffling](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1490.pdf)
* (Erik Taubeneck) “Ad tech” role in PPM IETF spec ([PPM #166](https://github.com/abetterinternet/ppm-specification/issues/166))


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 



1. 
2. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
3. Erik Anderson (Microsoft Edge)
4. Brendan Riordan-Butterworth (eyeo GmbH)
5. Brian May (dstillery)
6. Betul Durak (Microsoft)
7. Swati Lal (Yahoo)
8. Erik Taubeneck (Facebook)
9. Angelina Eng (IAB/IAB Techlab)
10.  Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
11. Vincent Grosbois (Criteo) 
12. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
13. Aditya Desai (Google)
14. Mariana Raykova (Google)
15. Phillipp Schoppmann (Google)
16. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
17. Martin Pal (Google Chrome)
18. Manny Isu (Google Chrome)
19. Moshe Lehrer (Neustar)
20. Przemyslaw Iwanczak (RTB House)
21. Marshall Vale (Google Chrome)


# Notes

Angelina: Is the OT getting extended?



* Charlie: There is an update to the developer mailing list. Basically, the OT has been extended in M95 to 97. The OT will be reactivated and you can get new tokens now. There are a few new features available
    * **Retrial logic** - Network failures won’t result to data loss
    * **New flexible attribution model **- Added some flexibility to the model to prioritize across impressions. First touch attribution can now be done. Also, probabilistic linear and a few other things that can be done
    * **Priorities for Conversion **- Allows you to better use all the priorities that come after conversions. If there is more than 3, you can choose the highest priority conversions
    * **DeDup Key** - If there is a repeat conv with the same dedup key, we will ignore and look up to the storage to see if there is a previous conversion to the key
* All these new features are available in the updated demo

Brian: Is there a place where all the updates are detailed?



* The explainer and the spec has the exact functionalities for each of the features

Brian: Is that going to function as a delta from the last release notes?



* The email should have that but there is no one place that has the delta. If it’s helpful, we can do a delta write up

Angelina: Can we get a link to the Explainer?



* [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/event_attribution_reporting_clicks.md](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/event_attribution_reporting_clicks.md)

As of right now, there is no policy saying what a conversion vs non-conversion is… The API is designed to avoid all pages conversions where you are tracking every step and action by the user. It discourages that and basically goes through the MVP data needed

Angelina: Having developed a tagging strategy for advertisers, knowing what the user did was useful - I was limiting it to 20; useful to understand what site the user was coming from; perhaps, news or financial sites etc.

Brian May: It will be interesting to have aggregated data for the entire flow.



* Charlie: Similar to the worklet proposal where we can have the full user journey. It is a long term view, but in the short term, we are looking at the declarative API

Have you considered a shortlist of statistics that will be interesting to advertisers?



* Charlie: Not sure we have thought through the statistics, but welcome any suggestions

**Moving Repo to PATCG**

Essentially, it seems like there is not quite an appetite to move proposals to PATCG. They would rather take the use cases and consider all the proposals in totality. There was some concern from Apple about it so wanted to provided this update and welcome any thoughts

Erik: Somebody needs to take a crack at the conversions given the commentary of lets not move anything wholesale.



* Charlie: I will be happy to work with Erik on this effort. It feels useful to have something a bit polished before we move forward

Brian: Concerned about the PATCG being a way to deal with folks’ frustrations on getting things done.



* Charlie: I think about it differently. All the folks in PATCG are trying to avoid that exact scenario, and the meeting cadence is likely to go down - All the work is still going to happen but in more written communication forums. I still think that there is a balance

Mariana: Just wanted clarification for this call moving to PATCG



* The PATCG is all the webfacing work supporting the private technology. My feeling is that PATCG will be a really broad umbrella. In the meantime, high level proposal stage and use cases will be held under the big umbrella so we have to be mindful of context while working there. The IATF stuff is more networking protocols across server to server, and not necessarily web facing

Erik T: Support racing conversion measurement as a use case in the PATCG. This solution can continue to live in this forum

Erik A: Unsure about the working model of the PATCG - what conversions can move and not move, but yes, there is a broad charter for the PATCG. However, there is a lot of motivation from folks to make it work out

Angelina: I think there will be some challenges when it comes to feedback from the business community. We need to figure out a way where they are interacting, involved in my task force but also find a way to get them involved… There is no guide to help them sign up for W3C. If there is anything we need specifically from the business community, please let me know.



* Charlie: Any thoughts on the best strategy?
* Angelina: Yes. In the last meeting, I went over FLoC, FLEDGE and a lot of the other APIs. They had questions on how it is going to work - The explainer was very technical so had to break it down for them.  
* Charlie: Angelina will share resources with the attendees of this session
    * IAB’s Browser/OS Ads Testing Task Force One Sheeter:  [https://drive.google.com/file/d/19mYBOAiiatila4WtEAgKCTBZmEndLAIu/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19mYBOAiiatila4WtEAgKCTBZmEndLAIu/view?usp=sharing)
    * Next meeting on 12/3. If interested in joining this Task Force, email: [data@iab.com](mailto:data@iab.com). Open to the public.
    * Task Force will be focusing on use cases to share.

**Feedback to Major API Changes**

There are 2 changes to the API that we want feedback on:



* Radically change how impressions are registered and minor changes how conversions are registered
* Alternative to the Worklet

We need folks to review and comment on these proposals

**Erik Anderson:** Microsoft published a [paper on oblivious shuffling](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1490.pdf). If folks are interested, here is the pointer so feel free to review

**Erik T: **Ad tech” role in PPM IETF spec ([PPM #166](https://github.com/abetterinternet/ppm-specification/issues/166)). In the current spec, based on how we have thought about it, the AdTech company that collects everything and kicks off the aggregation, hopefully does not have to be trusted… If anybody has thoughts on it, I would appreciate some input.

**Charlie: **The AdTech acting as a mega client, collects reports from clients and batch report from a leader so kind of a proxy. Will take a look

**Brian: **When is PATCG planning to meet again? Any channels where I should look?

**Charlie**: I do not believe PATCG met last week.

Erik T: There is an issue but there is no meeting right now: [https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/4](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/4). There seems to be consensus around having longer meetings that are less consistent to accommodate geographically dispersed participation
