# Attribution Reporting API

March 21, 2022 @ 8-9am PT

This doc: bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes

Meet link: https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy
Previous meetings: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings
Meeting issue: https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80

* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join W3C and WICG if you plan on participating

# Agenda
Add agenda topics here!

Chair: John Delaney
Scribe volunteer: 

* https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/347
* FYI: https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/39 [Erik T]
* https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/356

# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

1. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
2. Erik Taubeneck (Meta)
3. Andrew Paseltiner (Google Chrome)
4. Martin Pal (Google Chrome)
5. Avi Drucker (Google Chrome)
6. Russell Stringham (Adobe)
7. Stacy Karthas (AdTheorent)
8. Chris Evans (NextRoll)
9. Brad Lassey (Google Chrome)
10. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
11. Kevin Graney (Google Chrome)
12. Manny Isu (Google Chrome)
13. Alexandru Daicu (eyeo)
14. Phillipp Schoppmann (Google)
15. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
16. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
17. Wendell Baker (Yahoo)
18. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
19. Maud Nalpas (Google Chrome)


# Notes

## Consider waiving attributionsrc for triggers

https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/347

* John:  this is the attribute placed on image tags to initiate registration
  * It's hard to support legacy tags if we require an attribute change
  * This may be OK on the trigger side, because we don't have concerns on denial of service on the trigger side. We do have limits on unattributed sources however, i.e. on the source side.
  * Any concern on legacy concern is greatly appreciated
  * Questions/Comments?
  * (No comments)

## Should PATCG be opinionated on which technologies are used to enable privacy? https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/39 [Erik T]

* Erik T: Opened an issue on PATCG
  * If anyone wants to speak about either of the technologies mentioned in the issue, please leave a comment on the issue

## When rounding source_registration_time, would adtech want to specify the timezone https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/356

* John: Rounded registration time in order to give you the ability to e.g. batch by day
  * Currently in the API, this is just rounded to day, UTC time
  * Anything we're missing, e.g. regarding timezones? Please chime in

## General note regarding issues on the GH repo

* Martin: Generally, there are a number of issues open — Please feel free to chime in.
