# Attribution Reporting API

April 17, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: 

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* [Charlie Harrison] [Flexible event config explainer](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/flexible_event_config.md)
    * Code: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/753](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/753)
* [Charlie Harrison] [Issue 756](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/756) / [PR 757](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/757) FYI at possible backwards incompatible change


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
2. Brian May (Dstillery)
3. Aleksei Danilov (Criteo)
4. Aloïs Bissuel (Criteo)
5. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
6. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
7. 
8. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
9. Risako Hamano (Yahoo Japan)
10. Akash Nadan (Google Chrome)
11. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
12. Maybelline Boon (Google Chrome)


# Notes

[Issue 756](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/756) / [PR 757](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/pull/757) FYI at possible backwards incompatible change



* Charlie
    * This is a backwards incompatible change
    * Regarding fetch and XHR, we ask you to set the header
    * Undesirable properties: if you see this request it may not accurately reflect the actual status. Could lead to registration failures if not set correctly
    * May triggers CORS request
    * Proposal is to more tightly integrate with fetch and XHR settings
    * Setting a configuration option in the options
    * Then the attribution reporting eligible header will be added automatically.
    * Please take a look at the PR and provide any feedback
    * This will be similar to the integrations with private state tokens
    * This change won’t break the actual request from being sent out. Just requests with the manual header wouldn’t be able to register
* Alois
    * Any time when both options will be available?
* Charlie
    * Planning to make the change as part of a milestone. Will need to investigate further if that would be useful. Please comment on the issue if that would be useful

[Flexible event config explainer](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/blob/main/flexible_event_config.md)



* Charlie
    * Scoped to event level reports
    * Possible new functionality
    * Caveat: speculative new feature. We want to hear feedback regarding this
    * We want ad techs to have more tools to fine tune the noise and output. Flexibly configuring all aspects of the API. Allow you to optimize for your specific use case
    * Scoped to all output states of the API
    * Recent research in differential privacy machine learning has shown that flexibility can lead to higher utility to privacy tradeoffs
* Brian
    * Does this mean if you change one parameter you are going to be limited in another parameter?
* Charlie
    * We want to maintain the privacy bar
    * Privacy bar is composed on information gain and differential privacy
    * With this proposal we don’t have to regress these bars
    * Within these constraints you can optimize for different use cases
* Brian
    * It is helpful to state where you may lose capabilities if you specify new reporting windows
* Charlie
    * Makes sense. We can make edits if this is not clear. Please feel free to suggest edits
* Brian
    * Suggesting this in the preamble would be helpful
* David
    * All event level surfaces in FLEDGE may go away
    * Do we plan to keep event level surfaces in ARA?
* Charlie
    * We plan to keep event level for FLEDGE until 2026 at least
    * No current timeline for ARA
    * If there are ways we can better satisfy these use cases we would consider it, but currently no plans
    * Have filed event level topics as part of PATCG as well to discuss event level durability
    * This is not to be rolled in with the FLEDGE reporting plan
* Charlie
    * API changes
    * Currently have the attribution-reporting-register-source header. Plan to expand with 2 new parameters
    * Trigger-specs: a list of dictionaries. Scoped to trigger data. For every trigger spec you can specify report windows
    * Extended capability for how you can bucket values. Every source can have an associated state that can count, sum values, and specify a bucketing scheme
        * Example: i received between 3 and 10 conversions. Allows contracting the output space
        * Default is what the current API is
    * Bucketizing comes from the academic research. Linked in the proposal
    * Max_event_level_reports: allows you specify the max number of reports across all trigger_specs. Allows us to make proposal backwards compatible
        * Optional field
* David
    * The notion of a summary operator. Does that mean more than 1 trigger is matching, which means just clicks?
* Charlie
    * This does apply to views as well
    * It lets you set a threshold (buffer)
    * We are trying to bound the information gain and differential privacy parameter
    * Views are constrained by the information gain boundary but there is some flexibility you can do
* Brian
    * You are allowing us to customize things
    * How can we know what version of things are active when we interact with the API?
* Charlie
    * There are some things build in
    * Since the data is at the event level, you can tie event level to a trigger spec
    * Version is also useful during trigger registration (new way vs old way)
    * You can use filtering data to decide on the trigger side what the trigger data is
    * We should investigate more if needed
* Brian
    * Might be useful to know if something is already set for some trigger and then not changing it
* Charlie
    * These configs are tied to specific sources
    * You’ll never get a source with 2 configs
    * A trigger could get tied to 2 sources with different configs
    * This proposal is not trying to change the attribution logic
    * Attribution matching logic happens first and then we look at the trigger_spec config
    * If there is more in terms of a use case breaking please share a github issue
* Charlie
    * Trigger side
    * A new “value” parameter that gets summed if operator is set for value sum
    * One additional trigger_summary_bucket field in the report
* Charlie
    * Privacy considerations
    * The noise level will get set differently based on what your trigger spec is
    * Currently we plan to fail the registration if they are not within a given threshold for privacy parameters. Open to feedback on this area
    * Working on a PR that shows flip probability and information gain. Will share soon. Open to feedback on how to advertiser what these bounds are
    * There are also bounds on the api that allow us to fail fast to avoid large computation costs and avoid configs with too many output states. Feedback welcome
* Charlie
    * Example configs (in the explainer)
* David
    * The trigger needs to be what I encode in the header? Downsampling scenario
* Charlie
    * The down sampling to get event sources to work today may need to be thought of a bit more to see if there is any compatibility issues
    * If we want to keep that before we need to think a bit more about this. If it is an important issue please file a github issue
    * Is this a dealbreak?
* David
    * No
* Akash
    * What is downsampling?
* Charlie
    * Modulus operator
* David
    * How does debug reports integrate with this?
* Charlie
    * We haven’t specified yet
    * Could go either way: either when a report is emitted or an auxiliary report when successful but no report being sent/why
* Charlie
    * Sample configs (in proposal doc)
    * Please provide feedback
* End
