# Attribution Reporting API

March 6, 2023 @ 8am PT

This doc: [bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes](bit.ly/ara-meeting-notes)

Meet link: [https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy](https://meet.google.com/jnn-rhxv-nsy)

Previous meetings: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/tree/main/meetings)

Meeting issue: [https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/issues/80)



* Use Google meet “Raise hand” for queuing.
* If you can’t edit the doc during the meeting, try refreshing as permissions may have been updated after you loaded the page.
* If you are not admitted to the meeting, try rejoining. Google Meet has some UI that makes it easy to misclick if someone simultaneously requests to join while someone else is typing into the meeting chat.
* Please make sure to join [W3C](https://www.w3.org/) and [WICG](https://www.w3.org/community/wicg/) if you plan on participating


# Agenda



* Chair: Charlie Harrison
* Scribe volunteer: John Delaney, Renan Feldman, Robert Kubis

Please suggest agenda topics here! (either in a comment or a suggestion on the doc:



* Permission policy update
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/558](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/558)
* [John Delaney] ​​multiple registration urls for app to web
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/696](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/696)
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/718](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/718) 
    * Related to VAST issue: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/653](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/653)
* Debugging after third-party cookie deprecation
    * [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/705](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/705)
* [possibly next time]
    * Click quality: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/693](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/693) 
    * Dedup and priority: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/700](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/700)


# Attendees — please sign yourself in! 

(Please sign in at the start of the meeting)



1. Brian May (dstillery)
2. Charlie Harrison (Google Chrome)
3. David Dabbs (Epsilon)
4. Matt Lamont (AdTheorent)
5. Geon Son (AB180)
6. Sid Sahoo (Google Chrome)
7. Nan Lin (Google Chrome)
8. Risako Hamano(Yahoo Japan)
9. Subeom Choi (AB180)
10. Asha Menon (Google Chrome)
11. Renan Feldman (Google Chrome)
12. Stacy Andrade (AdTheorent)
13. Badih Ghazi (Google Research)
14. John Delaney (Google Chrome)
15. Robert Kubis (Google Chrome)
16. Andrew Pascoe (NextRoll)
17. Maybelline Boon (Google Chrome)
18. Christina Ilvento (Google Chrome)


# Notes



* Permission policy update
    * Charlie: there was discussion of permission after the origin trial. Based on discussion in this group, and other feedback, it was not reasonable to launch with more restrictive than the OT. We changed the requirement; for now, we’ll keep the * permission policy. We think * is not ideal, and want to create an alternative policy, but that is dependent on permission policy team so not expected soon
    * Charlie: we heard feedback on malicious use of disabling the permission. We acknowledge this is an issue.
    * Brian May: Do you mean someone in the chain disabling it?
    * Charlie: With this change, this is unlikely to happen by accident. Though a malicious actor can do it. This is still a concern. No current fix, unless we (a) fully remove the permission policy, which is not desired; (b)find an  innovative fix.
    * Brian May: if we allow this, and you can’t get caught, then someone will do this. We would be good to determine a way to know if this happened as a preventive measure.
    * Charlie: discussion on permission policy and improve monitoring of issues ;e.g.  can improve monitoring for redirect chains. 
    * Brian: If you have identified ways how people can detect this, please provide a write-up
    * Charlie: [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/562](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/562); written in the context of previous proposed policy. Let’s continue the discussion in that issue OR on the other issue on policy [TOOD: add link]
* [John Delaney] ​​multiple registration urls for app to web
    * John: on [https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/696](https://github.com/WICG/attribution-reporting-api/issues/696), multiple registrations are different between app vs. web. On the web, you redirect between one and the other. On the app, as the main source, you know the rest of the redirect chain.
    * John: In app>web, there is no existing redirect chain that you can register. Request is to support a list of registration URLs. 
    * John: Request is reasonable, and actually may be better (e.g. can support timeout on the other redirects). Change is not complicated.
    * Charlie: clarify the issues.
    * John: 
        * 696 -- take registerSource for a list of sources. 718 is about putting this functionality  in the web>web API.
        * This can also solve another use-case. Today, we support only two links. 
        * If you had multiple top-level requests, it’s easier for multiple registrations.
    * David Dabbs:
        * Today, if you want to track clicks, you don’t manage a stack of redirects. If they trust us, they don’t include this. Otherwise, they inform us what clickID is. 
        * Unlikely there are cases in which you have multiple redirects from a single source.
    * John: Today, they have to self-organize into a linear redirect chain.
    * David: There are at least 3 parties in the chain. E.g if Google Ads is in the chain, we have to redirect to them, and then redirect the client URL. Unclear if there are use-cases today.
    * Charlie: previous feedback was on VAST changes. This is a use-case in VAST to non-linerailize trackers on clicks. 
    * David: VAST is indeed different, and may have more trackers.
    * Charlie: With this added functionality, we may be able to reduce the latency and improve reliability on the user side, by doing the tracking in background pings.
    * Brian May: very supportive. Assume it’s additive, so they can continue to use redirects if needed. Question: does the first party make the decision on which to include?
    * John: this will need to be decided before the click. Not returning a list on first registration. 696 is on returning the list in the response. 
    * Brian May: still good.
    * Charlie: concern with additions of destinations that may grow very fast, if we allow anyone to add more destinations.
    * Brian: Echo concern on fan-outs. We should have controls on how to limit, e.g. limit the number of immediate calls.
    * David: On fan-out, (related to FLEDGE), is there a commitment by the browser to make the calls even if the user navigates away?
    * Charlie: We piggy-back on the FLEDGE keep-alive infra. Fan-out may be more difficult to implement. If we need to initiate a new request after the document, it may be more difficult. If we can use the existing mechanism, it’s probably the safest option.
    * David: I think I understood that for primary click, the attribution src has a higher priority. 
        * Charlie: not sure.
    * Brian: Can you redirect to send a list of additional redirects?
    * Charlie: It's a one-time fanout, when you move from app to web context. Can’t do that recursively. 
    * John: Browser doesn’t have to manage the ping, so it’s less of an issue.
    * Sid: confirming that 696 is the app world. 718 is the web world.
    * David: on proposal to satisfy more than 1, would it be multiple attribution source attributes?
        * John: we take a space separated list of URLs [_scribe: I don’t understand the question or answer, and probably got this wrong; should correct later_]
    * John: the VAST change is a different issue [TODO: link the issue]
* Debugging after third-party cookie deprecation [Issue 705]
    * [Charlie] 
        * We are looking for feedback, a lot of the debug features we added to the API are only possible to get working if you have a 3rd party cookie → these reports are not privacy neutral → we mitigate that by having this only available while 3rd party cookies are available, after 3PCD these mechanism will not be available anymore. We investigated a couple other privacy neutral path, there are only very few privacy neutral options.
        * Big paradigm we are looking at are aggregated debugging information
        * Failures, rate limits hit → the ones that are currently cookie gated
        * Are there other paradigms you can think of for privacy safe debugging in in post 3PCD world 
    * [Brian] 
        * A lot of delays are time based, for debugging it would be good to have instances based reporting
        * If there are X number of things happening produce a report
        * Allow the debugging reports be triggered by things other than minimum delay
    * [Charlie]
        * Delays are per client based, and clients can not change behavior based on what is happening across a population of clients
    * [Brian]
        * We also need safeguards that debug reports are not misused for other things to extract signals
    * [David Dabbs]
        * Is 705 about how we support enabling these without 3PC?
        * Can we use Chips here?
    * [Charlie]
        * Goes back to the original reason, why we allowed to set those privacy invasive reports gated by 3PC. → It’s not worse if you can already show that you have a 3PC set.
        * Real question: How can we enable privacy based debugging.
        * AI: We should rephrase Issue 705
        * If we kept any of the existing debug reports, we would want to fit them into a privacy model (DP, noising, …) post 3PCD
    * [John]
        * 2 key things:
            * (1) what do we need to recover from the existing
            * (2) verbose debugging reports
        * (Long term debugging) Monitoring L1 budget use
        * What do you like from the existing, what other things would you like to be incorporated?
    * [David]
        * We need more people to try out the APIs to envision + provide meaningful feedback on what debugging needs are
    * [Charlie]
        * If any of you is playing with
    * [Brian]
        * Complete new system, old tricks won’t work on this one, we need to learn and explore first to get an idea what we need
        * We need to be careful with things like “noise”, it might send you in the wrong direction
    * [Charlie]
        * Do you want a system that provides less data in return for less noise?
    * [Brian]
        * Lacking clues vs leading you in the wrong direction
    * [Charlie]
        * Minimize/Reduce false positives
    * [David]
        * Reducing the granularity of debug reports
        * Use OHTTP for immediate response feedback on issues showing up e.g. on header registration → you don’t have to wait “a month” till feedback is received
    * [Charlie]
        * Striping IPs / going through a proxy is something we should in general consider
        * In the Aggregation Service we have a privacy mechanism where we calc aggregates and add noise
        * Other options are shuffling through an anonymous proxy
    * [David]
        * Don’t generate false incident reports
    * [Brian]
        * Extend trust for debug information as well
    * [Charlie]
        * Aggregated debugging information is difficult to work with, this doesn’t seem too much a concern on this call
    * [Brian]
        * If we had a signal to shut down the source of the problem, even if we don’t know what the reason is.
    * [John]
        * Let’s put together some examples and their monitoring/debugging needs.
    * [Brian]
        * We need to be careful to not open it up for abuse
